and sometimes my doctor would tell me
these these fatalistic things they're
try to encourage me to lose weight he
would say things like you know if you
keep going the way you're going you're
gonna be dead by 30 and I used to think
well I'm pretty miserable I'm pretty
unhappy I may as well just do what I
want and what I wanted to do is play a
lot of video games go to a lot of
buffets play a lot of magic that's what
I did it is both a strength and a
weakness of the internet that a video
like this will primarily reach an
audience of people who already agree
with it I know that these videos I make
about the importance of quitting video
games and overcoming video game
addiction they primarily reach an
audience of people who already agree
with my basic premise some of them send
me fan mail saying that my videos helped
them to kind of reinforce their
commitment it helps them to kind of
reflect on why it is they're quitting
video games and feel highly motivated to
try to lead a more meaningful life to
continue as adults not having video
games as part of their life and you need
to stay mentally and physically fit so
that the quality of your life is good so
that your life is enjoyable and sure
right now it might be very enjoyable to
smoke or drink a lot may be very
enjoyable to do some drugs may be very
enjoyable to be eating whatever you want
it may be very enjoyable to not have to
exercise and deal with that [ __ ]
yeah that may be very enjoyable now
people are also here to give me advice
here's a little bit of advice back take
care of your body
however these videos will also reach a
smaller number of people who still have
an excuse making mentality towards video
games people were still committed to
playing video games and committed to
making excuses for the habit as adults
so I'm going to open this video by
appealing to those people with the
following comparison the following
example before we get into the main
topic of the video can you imagine going
to a museum can imagine this as a museum
of art or a museum dealing with history
and politics let's say a war museum
explaining the history of a particular
you go to a museum and you look at the
crowd of people they're walking through
the exhibit hall see three types of
people there are some people who are at
such a low level of education such a low
level of knowledge such a low level of
prior interest that they can't
appreciate what the museum is trying to
teach them at all they can't enjoy being
there and they maybe just kind of walk
through feeling alienated and out of
sorts and in the wrong place they're
just not comfortable with it second
group of people who are at a level of
knowledge sophistication education prior
interest they're at a level where they
really can enjoy and appreciate being in
the museum and I suppose they learn
something it's educational for them in
some sense but then there's a third
group of people there's a third group of
people you might not be able to see so
easily at all there are people who are
already at too high a level of knowledge
expertise sophistication experience
people who are at a level where they
feel alienated from that museum exhibit
where they may even feel disgusted with
the museum exhibit because they're real
specialists alright if you really have
specialized in-depth knowledge about the
history of this war and you go to a war
museum you may be walking around saying
this is all just propaganda this is all
just at a low level intended for
children many museums are many museums
are designed to be an educational
experience for children and school
groups school groups that go through
with the teacher leading you look around
I think this isn't for me this isn't for
someone at my level of sophistication
expertise like yours like if you have a
specialists view of that war and that
political history you're interested in
current controversies and the
scholarship and reinterpretation and you
know documents that have recently
emerged that challenge what we thought
about that history just twenty years ago
and you're walking around your
I'm totally alienated and maybe even
kind of angry and pissed off and you
feel I can't I can't enjoy this at all
and I don't even want to see this I
don't even want to be part of what's
going on this museum and obviously you
know within something like an art museum
there's also a sense in which you may if
you're really serious about the fine
arts you may be walking around feeling
this isn't for someone like me this
isn't for someone at my level of
sophistication all right there's a false
assumption on the part of many of the
defenders of video gaming as a habit
that if I can't appreciate playing video
games it's because I'm at such a such a
low level of sophistication such a low
level of education or experience within
that medium that I can't appreciate the
artistry I can't appreciate the cultural
content or I can't appreciate the skill
that I can't appreciate the redeeming
qualities that are involved in
videogames that I'm like some bumpkin
walking around a museum who just feels
totally alienated for that museum and
you're dead wrong someone like myself
and I did grow up with video games the
problem is that I'm at too high a level
of sophistication to enjoy doing this
with my time there is no way I could
force myself to enjoy playing video
games and I do try from time to time
partly just because I have a daughter I
have a I have a daughter and she plays
video games and I play video games with
her and I do think about and research
what's going on in video games so that I
can find software and hardware to
provide her with for example while
riding on a train if you have a three
hour train journey with a small child
that child is a very limited ability to
do something productive with that time
of the Train if I was there alone
without my daughter you know I could get
a lot of work done during a three hour
train journey and for me I even look
forward to that wow I can sit down with
my computer it's at you know the books
okay
I have to appeal to you if you still
play video games just to use your
imagination that way like you know you
may not know what it's like to be a
specialist in the fine arts you may not
know what it's like to be a specialist
in political history right but you can
probably imagine what it's like to have
that high
of specialization expertise and then you
go to a museum that's just it's just
created for a childlike level of
entertainment and educational value and
you walk early not mad this is just not
for me if you build up your own level of
acumen your own level of sophistication
that you could spend your time better
just sitting and thinking or sitting
with a blank sheet of paper there's so
much productive work you could be doing
with your mind your mind alone not even
bringing your body into it with say the
chunk of three hours of time that
instead you'd be putting into this video
game and playing a video game for three
hours once you're at that higher level
of sophistication its misery and if you
get arthritis at 40 like I did trust me
you're not gonna like it if you have
mobility issues at 40 the same way I
have trust me you're not gonna like it
if you have adult set on onset diabetes
around the age of 35 trust me you're not
going to like it at my last doctor's
checkup I was told my blood pressure was
abnormally high for someone my age and
my doctor wanted to put me on blood
pressure medication I was only like 22
or 23 between being really unhappy with
what I saw in the mirror my dad's heart
scare and then my own heart scare I
realized I needed to make some serious
lifestyle changes so I immediately went
kind of cold turkey on life really I
stopped hanging out with a lot of my
friends I stopped going out to eat I
stopped smoking I stopped drinking well
for the most part at least
and I started dedicating my life to
getting in shape and beating this
hereditary heart complication that I was
gonna face if I kept going down the path
I was going down you look let's deal
with the physical aspect and let's deal
with the intellectual aspect it's two
separations
somebody like boogie2988 famous youtuber
struggling to lose weight for all these
years
he's tremendously overweight and obese
all of us know one of these days we're
gonna get the bad news that his health
problems have killed him that he's died
because he never did lose the weight he
never did switch to a vegan diet you
never did start exercising okay do you
think it would have been harder or
easier for that guy to lose weight if he
had quit video games first even if it is
just on the level of dealing with time
having three hours a day to go to the
gym instead of three hours a day playing
video games that's a very fundamental
difference in the allocation of time but
we all know it's not just time we're
talking about here it's also
cumulatively mentally intellectually
culturally the type of sophistication
you develop the type of sophistication
you accrue doing other things with your
mind during those three hours a day I've
got an example of a guy here I want to
play this clip for you this guy lost
more than a hundred pounds he got in
shape he managed to turn his whole life
around in a way that boogie2988 didn't
and he did this because he quit playing
video games that enabled him to bring
about the physical transformation you
wanted and I hope I hope whatever he's
doing with his mind is better than what
he was doing when he was playing video
games wouldn't be hard well I know you
guys haven't seen me in a while so here
comes the reveal here's me almost a
hundred pounds lighter so it's time for
me to be really transparent now I'm not
doing retro gaming much anymore my retro
video game collection was a massive and
I mean both in terms of physical size at
the amount of room that it took up but I
also mean financially and I really
couldn't support that hobby effectively
with the rest of everything that's going
on so I've begun or I began rather it's
done now to slowly auction off
my collection piece by piece